<h1 align="center">NASA </h1>
<p> On July 29, 1958 the United States of America President <a href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/about-the-white-house/presidents/dwight-d-eisenhower/">Dwight D. Eisenhower</a> signed the National Aeronautics and Space Act (NASA) into law. 
<strong>NASA</strong> was founded as a response to the Soviet Union's successful launch of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sputnik_1">Sputnik.</a> Its establishment involved significant contributions from various government officials and scientists, notably President Dwight D. Eisenhower. The idea for NASA emerged during the Cold War, particularly in response to the Space Race with the Soviet Union. Following the launch of Sputnik in 1957, the U.S. government sought to develop its own capabilities in space exploration, leading to the formation of NASA to centralize and coordinate Americian aerospace research and development.</p>
<p>NASA is primarily funded through annual appropriations from the U.S. federal government. For fiscal year 2024, NASA's <a href="https://www.nasa.gov/nasa-fiscal-year-2024-budget-request/"> budget</a> request was approximately $24 billion. Over the decades, NASA has received hundreds of billions in funding since its inception. Key focuses include continued funding for the Artemis program aimed at lunar exploration, Mars Sample Return missions, and increasing investments in space technology. Major allocations include $8.3 billion for science programs and $7.97 billion for exploration, with significant attention to planetary science and the Mars Sample Return project.
</p>
<p>NASA aims to expand human knowledge about space, Earth, and the solar system while developing technology for future exploration missions. Key problems include climate change monitoring, planetary exploration, human safety in space, and technological advancements for scientific research. NASA is currently working on several high priority projects aimed at solving key scientific and exploratory challenges. Some of the major initiatives includes:

  1. <a href="https://youtu.be/7XzhtWcepos?si=sO56buOHcS83pUUG"> ArtemisProgram</a> - Goal is to return humans to the Moon and establish a sustainable presence by 2025, ultimately paving the way for Mars exploration. Challenges are developing new technologies for lunar surface habitats, spacecraft like the Orion capsule, and the Space launch System (SLS), as well as the Human Landing System (HLS)
  2. <a href="https://youtu.be/coZ83RM1jbk?si=zvJqwIcM_m0Q_xwd"> Mars Exploration</a> - Perseverance Rover 
  3. <a href="https://dragonfly.jhuapl.edu/"> Dragonfly</a> - Dragonfly will deliver the most expansive suite of science instruments ever dispatched to another celestial body. Dragonfly will cover more than 50 miles of the organics-rich Tian surface, landing, collecting and returning results that could change our understanding of life in the universe.</p>
<p>NASA's intended customers include U.S. citizens, researchers, educators, and international partners. The market size can be considered broad as it includes a multitude of stakeholders interested in  space science, education, climate research, and international collaboration. The global space industry, as a whole, is valued at hundreds of billions of dollars.
During the 20th century NASA's unfair advantage lies in its extensive expertise, historical experience, and comprehensive infrastructure for space exploration and research. This includes access to advanced technology, a vast network of partnerships, and a rich pool of talent from scientists, engineers, and astronauts. Incorporating Spacecraft and Satellites: For Earth observations and space exploration. Robotics: For Mars rovers and robotic missions. Artificial Intelligence: For data analysis and mission planning. Advanced materials and propulsion systems: For ongoing and future missions. 
These technologies are implemented through numerous projects, such as Artemis for lunar exploration and the Mars Perseverance rover mission.There has been major trends in innovation over the last 5 to 10 years within NASA and these are:<p>
  - Increased privatization of space travel by companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin.</p>
  <p>- Advancements in satellite technology and miniaturization.</p>
  <p>- Growing interest in Mars and lunar exploration.</p>
- Development of reusable rocket technology.
- Expansion of earth observation capabilities for climate monitoring.
</p> 
